do you want to set your Instagram apart
from everyone else are you struggling to
grow and get engagement on Instagram
well stay tuned because in today's
episode of build your tribe I'm going to
be sharing with you 10 Instagram hacks
that actually work in 2023.
my name is Brock Johnson and it's my job
to help you grow on Instagram since 2021
I've grown my own Instagram account by
over 600 000 followers and I've helped
thousands of our club members grow their
accounts as well and today I'm going to
be sharing with you some Insider tricks
and tips that not many people are
talking about or even know exist but
they're going to allow you to make your
stories and your feed content really
stand out from the crowd and when I say
hacks don't worry I don't want you to
think of someone you know in a dark room
with a hoodie up typing on a keyboard
breaking into the Instagram system
instead we're just going to use the
features that are built into Instagram
but we're going to be using them in
unique ways the first hack that I want
to tell you about is the exploding
confetti hack now some of you may
already know when you create a countdown
sticker on Instagram and that countdown
reaches zero confetti will explode onto
your Instagram story so for example if
someone is watching your story and
there's still a few hours left in your
Countdown the countdown sticker will
just keep counting down but if someone
opens up your story and the countdown
timer hits zero or has already hit zero
before they open that story some
confetti will shoot out from both sides
of the screen and then it will kind of
float down and of course an explosion of
confetti is likely to grab your viewers
attention and it's just a great way to
Signal celebration but the specific hack
is creating a countdown timer and then
setting it only one minute ahead of
where you currently are when you are
creating that story then once you create
that timer essentially pretty much
everyone who is viewing it after that
first minute of the upload they're going
to see the explosion of confetti but
rather than leaving the countdown timer
on the screen for people to see you're
going to slide the countdown timer off
to the side that way the countdown will
still be applied to the story The
confetti will still explode for any of
your viewers who are watching the story
but they won't see a random countdown
timer that's pretty much automatically
set to have already expired I use this
as a way to draw attention to new
podcast episodes when I'm promoting them
on my Instagram stories I use this as a
way to congratulate and announce my
follower of the week every single week
and I'm sure you could come up with some
creative and original ways to use this
explosion of confetti as well the second
hack that I have for you is also related
to Instagram stories and it's
specifically that you can control how
long your text or photo stories last for
now typically when you were to just post
a photo or anything that isn't a video
onto your Instagram stories it's going
to be set to an automatic duration of
five seconds but depending on what
you're posting and what your goal is you
might want that to actually stay on the
screen for longer or possibly even for
shorter if the story was something that
you really wanted to give people time to
be able to consume let's say it was a
text story with a couple paragraphs
worth of text or maybe there was a link
to the latest sale that you're off
offering and you don't want people to
only have five seconds to click you want
them to have 15 or even 40 or 60 seconds
to click there is a way that you can
actually extend that duration past five
seconds on the other hand there might
also be reasons for you to reduce that
time for example one of the best ways to
increase your story views is to increase
the amount of people who are tapping on
the left side of the screen to go back
to the previous stories tapbacks are a
great indication for the algorithm that
your story is worth watching because
quite literally people are tapping back
to re-watch your story now if you have a
photo that's up for five seconds someone
might only look at that for two or three
seconds and then they're done they've
consumed the photo they've looked at it
and now they're going to tap on the
right side of the screen to move forward
which is the opposite of a tap back and
thus usually generates opposite results
in the algorithm translation Instagram
doesn't like it when people are just
tapping through your story because that
indicates they're not really paying
attention and they're not that into or
they're not spending enough time with
your story so if you're posting a story
that you want to kind of gamify so that
people will tap back you could create a
two three or four Second Story that
people are essentially forced to tap
back to re-watch this again might be
really beneficial if you have let's say
a long piece of text on your Instagram
stories you might intentionally want to
make that only a three or four Second
Story So that after those three or four
seconds people are like wait I wasn't
done reading yet and they tap back to
revisit it alternatively maybe you
wanted to post a really cute selfie on
your Instagram stories but you didn't
want it to sit there for five seconds
because you know that people are
probably only going to look at it for
two or three seconds and then they're
going to tap forward instead you could
have that story last for only two or
three seconds so that people aren't
forced to tap forward they're either
naturally moved forward or even they're
encouraged to tap back and re-watch now
how do you actually do this hack what
you're going to do is record a video in
your Instagram stories for the desired
length so again if you want the desired
story to be two to three seconds long
record a two to three Second Story if
you want the story to be 45 seconds long
record a 45 Second Story it doesn't
matter what the video is of it doesn't
matter if you're talking it doesn't
matter what is going on because we're
just going to use this video as a
background then we're going to import a
photo from the camera roll a pre-made
story on top of that video we're going
to make sure that the photo can cover up
the entire screen so that no one can see
the video in the background and they
don't even know that there is a video in
the background they're just seeing the
pre-made Story the photo the text
whatever it may be and it's lasting for
the duration of time that you have
chosen the third Instagram hack that
actually works in 2023 is a great one
for increasing engagement and that is
putting a pulsing GIF behind your
engagement stickers putting engagement
stickers on your Instagram stories as
one of the best ways to increase views
on your Instagram stories because if
people are engaging with your stories
then the algorithm thinks that your
story is good and will show it to more
people and obviously if you don't have
an engagement sticker then there's no
way for people to engage but the hack
here is to go into the gifts section
within the Instagram stories and search
pulsing Circle or pulsing rectangle
depending on which kind of Engagement
sticker you're using and then put that
pulsing icon behind the engagement
sticker that way you increase the odds
that people are actually going to notice
that engagement sticker and that they
are going to interact with it the fourth
hack that I have for you is for the poll
sticker which can be added to stories or
to reels and the hack here is that you
don't actually have to add a question on
top of the poll instead you can just put
the different options within the poll
and then you could create your own text
as the actual question or you could
speak the question that is going to be
answered based off people's voting in
the poll and this is different than the
quiz sticker when you do the quiz
sticker you have to put some sort of
text in the Box above the actual quiz
options you have to put the question for
the quiz or at least some piece of text
but when you're doing a poll you don't
have to you can just leave that blank
type in the different options for the
poll and then you have more creativity
freedom and flexibility to share the
actual pull question however you may
choose the fifth hack that I have for
you is a wide angle lens now I do want
to say that apparently this doesn't work
if you're on Android or of course if
you're on a phone that doesn't have a
wide angle lens but if you're on iOS and
especially if you're on an iPhone that
has one of those wide angle or macro
lenses this hack will work for you and
essentially all you have to do is open
up the Instagram camera whether it's the
reels camera or the story's camera and
then pinch your fingers together and you
will enter into a wide angle mode this
is great for giving your content a
unique look or possibly capturing more
in your scene than you otherwise would
with the traditional camera angle hack
number six and this one is absolutely
huge if you want to grow your following
and that is increasing the size of your
follow button and this is going to blow
some people's minds when you view
people's profile on Instagram the follow
button will either take up half of the
screen or it will take up the entire
screen and of course if the follow
button is bigger thus if it is taking up
the entire screen you are more likely to
get a follow people are more likely to
click on that button when it comes to
the buttons we click and the way we use
social media size does matter so having
a bigger follow button encourages more
people to actually Follow You Now how do
you get this bigger follow button it's
not as easy as simply going to your
Instagram settings and then choosing I
want the bigger follow button what
you're going to have to do is add an
additional button to your profile now
this could be a random button such as a
book Now button this could be a
subscribe button if you're offering
Instagram subscriptions or this could be
a contact button if if you want to put
your email or phone number into your
Instagram profile the reason this works
is that the general everyday Instagram
profile has two buttons on it it has the
follow button and the message button and
so of course with two buttons Instagram
is going to put them side by side and
they're both only going to take up half
the screen but when you add a third
button Instagram adds a second line so
now your follow button will take up the
entire first line and below that will be
the message button and then whatever
that new button is Instagram hack number
seven is cutting yourself out and this
is one of my favorite things to do for
increasing engagement on my Instagram
stories or for quickly and easily
creating Graphics that I'm going to
share to my Instagram feed essentially
all you have to do is open up your
camera roll on your device find a photo
of yourself that you're going to want to
cut out and then if you're on iOS you
can just hold down on that photo of
yourself and if you're on the most
recent update of iOS it will basically
just scan and cut you out you can then
press copy go back over to Instagram
press paste and it will paste in the
cutout of yourself if you are on an
Android or non-ios device you're going
to have to create a PNG image of
yourself and I'm sure there are some
Android devices that have this cutout
capability but it's not necessarily as
universal or simple as it is on iOS and
so I'm sure there are tutorials out
there for cutting yourself out but it's
a really really useful way to maybe
point at things or just to put a photo
of yourself on the image thus likely
increasing your engagement because
people engage with people and they'd
rather see a photo of you on this text
post than just a bunch of text Instagram
hack number eight is the bane of graphic
designers existence and it is what is
widely considered one of the worst fonts
ever made one of the most hated fonts in
the history of typography and that is
papyrus Papyrus is a font that kind of
looks like tattered handwriting on an
old piece of paper and it's a hidden
font with an Instagram essentially what
you're going to do is go to this font
option from the Instagram fonts menu and
then type in the word Papyrus when you
type that last s in the word Papyrus the
font will automatically change to the
Papyrus font and then you can delete the
word and type whatever it is you may
want now again not everyone loves this
font there's not a ton of use cases for
it but maybe it really works for
whatever graphic design you're going for
maybe it is one of your brand fonts or
maybe you just want to experiment and
have a little fun with adding this font
to some of your images and some of your
stories Instagram hack number nine is
for when you're doing a q a on your
Instagram stories you can actually
respond to multiple questions at once
you might want to do this if you have
multiple people asking similar questions
or maybe if you want to answer multiple
questions on one single story or maybe
you even just want to share multiple
responses on one story it's a relatively
simple hack to do and it's utilizing the
camera roll sticker in Instagram stories
essentially all you have to do is find
the response that you you want to add to
your Instagram story click on it as if
you were going to respond to it in a
story of its own and then take a
screenshot once you take that screenshot
crop the actual image so that it's
really close over the edges of that
response box and in fact it should even
overlap a little bit inside of the edges
then create a new story and you'll be
able to add that response in any other
response that you want on top of the
story thus making it appear like you're
responding to multiple questions or
multiple responses in one single story
last but not least hack number 10 is a
hidden countdown for your Instagram
stories or your Instagram reels of
course when you're recording with an
audio on your Instagram reels there is a
built-in countdown timer that can allow
you some time and space to get set up
and get ready for recording but you can
actually do this without having an audio
and even on Instagram stories all you
have to do is open up the Instagram
camera select the hands-free option and
then hold down on the button when you
hold down the record button for a few
seconds a countdown will appear counting
down three two one and this gives you a
few seconds to get positioned and get
set up for your story for your video for
your reel whatever it may be go ahead
and give some of these Instagram hacks a
try and I would love to hear from you in
the comments below this YouTube video
have you heard of any of these before
which one was most mind-blowing to you
and maybe which one are you going to be
using first thank you so much for
watching or listening today and as
always happy networking
[Music]
thank you